"Which means to-day, in a quarter of an hour," he said, as I laid down
the note. "And I fear it's pretty hopeless."

"You know who she is, then?" I remarked.

He nodded gravely and crossed to a corner of the room where a pile of
newspapers was lying on a chair. And as I watched him I wondered, not
for the first time, what had made him take up the profession he had. A
born player of games, wealthy, and distinctly good-looking, he seemed
the last person in the world to become a detective. And yet that was
what he was when one boiled down to hard facts. True, he picked and
chose his cases, and sometimes for months on end he never handled one at
all. But sooner or later some crime would interest him, and then he
would drop everything until he had either solved it or was beaten.

With the official police he was on excellent terms, which was not to be
wondered at in view of the fact that on many occasions he had put them
on the right track. At times some new man was apt to smile
contemptuously at the presumption of an amateur pitting himself against
the official force, but the smile generally faded before long. For there
was no denying that he had a most uncanny _flair_ for picking out the
points that mattered from a mass of irrelevant detail.

"It's bad to prejudge a case," he remarked, coming back with two papers,
"but this looks pretty damaging on the face of it."

He pointed to a paragraph, and I ran my eye down it.

                  "SHOCKING TRAGEDY IN LEICESTERSHIRE

                     BRUTAL MURDER OF YOUNG ARTIST

    "A crime of unparalleled ferocity was committed yesterday in the
    grounds of Mexbury Hall, the home of Mr. John Playfair, who has
    lived there for some years with his ward, Miss Katherine Moody,
    and her companion. Standing amongst the trees, some way from the
    Hall and out of sight of it, there is a summer-house which
    commands a magnificent view over the surrounding country. And it
    was in this summer-house that the tragedy occurred.

    "It appears that for some weeks past Mr. Playfair has allowed a
    young artist named Bernard Power to use it as a studio.
    Yesterday, on returning in the afternoon from a motor trip, Mr.
    Playfair, while taking a stroll in the grounds, happened to pass
    by the summer-house, where he was horrified to see a red stream
    dripping sluggishly down the wooden steps that led to the door.
    He rushed in, to find the unfortunate young man lying dead on
    the floor with his head literally crushed in like a broken
    egg-shell.

    "Touching nothing, he rushed back to the house, where he
    telephoned for the police and a doctor, who arrived post-haste.

    "The doctor stated, after examining the body, that Mr. Power had
    been dead about five hours, which placed the time of the crime
    at ten o'clock that morning. Then, with the help of Inspector
    Savage, who has charge of the case, the body was moved, and
    instantly the weapon with which the deed was done was
    discovered. A huge stone weighing over fourteen pounds was lying
    on the floor, and adhering to it were blood and several hairs
    that obviously had belonged to the dead man. Mr. Playfair
    explained that the stone had originally come from an old heap
    which had been left over when the foundations of the
    summer-house had been laid. This particular one, he went on to
    say, had been used as a weight on the floor to prevent the door
    from banging when the artist wanted it open: he had suggested it
    to him some weeks previously.

    "It is clear that a particularly brutal murder has been
    committed, as any possibility of accident or suicide can be
    ruled out. The murderer must have approached from behind while
    the unfortunate young man was at work on his picture, and bashed
    in his head with one blow.

    "The police are in possession of several clues, and sensational
    developments are expected."

I looked at the date. It was yesterday's paper. Then I looked at the
other paragraph he was indicating.

"These are the sensational developments," said Ronald, "which are
doubtless responsible for Miss Moody's letter."

    "The police have lost no time in following up the clues they
    obtained in the shocking tragedy that occurred the day before
    yesterday at Mexbury Hall. It will be recalled that the body of
    a young artist named Bernard Power was found in the summer-house
    with the head battered in in a fashion which proved conclusively
    that a singularly brutal murder had been committed.

    "Yesterday Inspector Savage arrested a neighbouring landowner,
    Mr. Hubert Daynton, on the charge of being the murderer. It is
    understood that a stick belonging to the accused was found in
    the summer-house; and the butt end of a cigarette of a brand he
    habitually smokes was discovered lying on the floor.

    "The accused protests his complete ignorance of the affair, and
    further developments are awaited hourly. Needless to say, Mr.
    Playfair, in whose grounds the tragedy occurred, is much upset,
    as the dead man was a protégé of his."

I put down the paper and glanced at my companion.

"It certainly seems pretty bad for Mr. Hubert Daynton," I said. "He
seems to have gone out of his way to leave incriminating evidence lying
about."

"Exactly," Standish remarked. "Which may be a point in his favour.
However, there goes the bell. We'll hear what Miss Moody has to say."

The door opened, and his man ushered in a delightfully pretty girl of
about twenty-one or two, who looked from one to the other of us with a
worried expression on her face.

"Sit down, Miss Moody," said Ronald. "And let me introduce a great pal
of mine, Bob Miller. You can say anything you like in front of him."

"I suppose you know what I've come about, Mr. Standish," cried the girl.

"I know what has appeared in the papers," said Ronald, "which summarises
into the fact that Hubert Daynton has been arrested for the murder of an
artist called Bernard Power in the summer-house of your guardian's
place."

"But he never did it, Mr. Standish," she cried, clasping her hands
together.

"So, I gather, he states. At the same time, the police seem to think
otherwise. Now will you be good enough to fill in all the gaps, as far
as you can, which have been left by the papers? And one thing I beg of
you--don't keep anything back. It is absolutely imperative that I should
have all the facts, even if they appear to you to be damaging."

"I will conceal nothing," she said. "You know from the papers that I
live at Mexbury Hall with my guardian, and Hubert Daynton has the
neighbouring house, Gadsby Tower. He was often over with us, and we did
the same thing at his place----"

"Was?" put in Ronald. "Do you imply anything by using the past tense?"

"During recent months matters have become a little strained," she said,
a slightly heightened colour coming into her cheeks. "To be brief, he
wanted to marry me, and my guardian didn't like the idea."

"Why not?" said Ronald bluntly. "Was there any particular reason, or
just general disapproval?"

"I don't know," she answered. "Uncle John--he's not really any relation,
of course--is very old-fashioned in some ways, and has the most absurd
ideas about what girls ought to be told. But one thing is certain: the
moment Hubert made it clear that he wanted to marry me, Uncle John's
manner towards him changed completely."

"One further point, Miss Moody," said Ronald, with a faint smile. "What
were your feelings on the subject?"

"Well," she answered frankly, "I didn't say I would and I didn't say I
wouldn't. He's rather a dear, and I like him immensely, but I can't say
I'm in love with him. In addition, I'm terribly fond of Uncle John, who
has been a sort of mother and father to me, and the fact that he
disapproved did influence me. There was an idea at the back of my mind,
I think, that in time I might get him to change his mind about Hubert,
which would have made a difference."

"I understand perfectly," said Ronald. "And that was the condition of
affairs between you and Hubert Daynton at the time of his arrest?"

"I'm afraid it wasn't," she answered slowly. "Two months ago Bernard
Power came to stay at the village inn. He was an artist, as you know,
and in some way or other he got to know Uncle John. Now, my guardian is
a photographic maniac--it is the one absorbing hobby of his life--and as
Bernard went in for landscape work they seemed to find something in
common. He was continually asking Bernard to dinner; and fitted him up,
as you read in the papers, in the summer-house as a studio."

She paused for a moment, and glanced from Ronald to me.

"The poor man is dead now," she went on, "and if it wasn't for Hubert's
sake, I'd say nothing. But there's no getting away from the fact that
Bernard Power was a nasty bit of work. You both of you look thoroughly
human, and you'll know what I mean when I say he was always pawing one,
touching one's arm or something like that--a thing I loathe. But matters
came to a head three days ago. I happened to be passing the summer-house
when he called out to me to come and have a look at his picture.

"Without thinking, I went in. To do him justice, he was a very clever
painter. And before I knew where I was, he'd seized me in his arms and
was trying to kiss me. I was perfectly furious. I'd never given him the
slightest encouragement. However, after I'd smacked his face as hard as
I could, he let me go. And then I told him a few home truths and left."

Again she paused, and bit her lip.

"I left, Mr. Standish, and, as evil fortune would have it, I ran into
Hubert paying one of his very infrequent visits. He had come over to see
me about a spaniel I wanted. If only it had been an hour later it
wouldn't have mattered; I should have recovered. As it was, he saw, of
course, that I was angry and realising I'd come from the direction of
the summer-house, he jumped at once to the correct conclusion.

"'Has that damned painter been up to his monkey tricks again?' he cried.

"And very foolishly I told him what had happened. He was furious, and
there's no denying that Hubert has a very nasty temper when roused. I
regretted having said anything the moment the words were out of my
mouth, but then it was too late. And it was only with the greatest
difficulty that I prevented him going off then and there to put it
across Bernard Power. I told him that I was quite capable of looking
after myself, and that the matter was over and done with.

"In the middle of our conversation Uncle John joined us. He saw at once
that something was up and asked what had happened. Hubert told him and
he didn't mince his words, which got Uncle John's back up. And finally
the two of them very nearly had a row.

"Uncle John's point of view was that he was the proper person for me to
go to, and that it was no business of Hubert's. Hubert, on the contrary
said it was any decent man's business if some swab of a painter kissed a
girl against her will. And then he made the damning statement that he
personally proposed to interview Mr. Bernard Power the following
morning."

"Did anyone else hear that remark besides you and your guardian?" asked
Ronald.

"No one," she said. "Of that I'm positive."

"Why did he specify the following morning? Why didn't he go right away?"

"He had people coming to lunch, and it was getting late."

"And the following morning was the morning of the murder," said Ronald
thoughtfully. "Now let's hear exactly what Daynton says took place."

"He says that he started from Gadsby Tower at half-past nine and walked
over to the summer-house. He found Bernard Power had not yet arrived, so
he lit a cigarette and waited for him--a cigarette which he admits he
threw on the floor and put out with his shoe.

"Then Bernard Power came in, and apparently Hubert went for him like a
pickpocket. He called him a leprous mess, and a few more things of that
sort, and they had a fearful quarrel, in the course of which Hubert put
his stick up against the wall, because he was afraid he might hit the
other with it, and he was a much smaller man than Hubert. Then he left,
and went back to his own house, which he reached at twenty-past ten."

Ronald Standish nodded thoughtfully.

"Forgetting all about his stick," he remarked. "A very important point,
that."

"He was so excited, Mr. Standish," said the girl. "I know the police
think as you do, but surely it's understandable."

"My dear Miss Moody," he said with a smile, "you quite mistake my
meaning. Now that I've heard your full story I think it tells enormously
in his favour. It is certain that he must have discovered he had left
his stick in the summer-house on his way back to Gadsby Tower. There is
nothing that a man notices quicker. If, then, he had murdered Power he
would at all costs have had to go back to get it. To leave such a
damning piece of evidence lying about was tantamount to putting a noose
round his neck. But what was more natural than that he, rather than
renew the quarrel, should decide to leave it there, and get it some
other time?"

"Then you don't think he did it?" she cried eagerly.

"What I may think," said Ronald guardedly, "is one thing. What we've got
to prove is another. If he didn't do it--who did? The crime, according
to the doctor's evidence, must have been committed very shortly after
Daynton left the summer-house. It is, therefore, I think, a justifiable
assumption that the murderer was near by during the interview, heard the
quarrel, and seized the opportunity of throwing suspicion on somebody
else. So that at any rate one line of exploration must be to find out if
this man Power had an enemy who was so bitter against him that he
wouldn't stick at murder. And from what you tell me of his manners with
you, it would not be surprising if he has gone even further with some
other girl. In which case there may be a man who was not as forbearing
as Daynton."

"Then you'll help Hubert?" she cried.

"Certainly, Miss Moody," he said. "Now that I've heard the details my
opinion is quite different. Bob and I will come down with you this
afternoon. But before we start there are just one or two points I'd like
cleared up. First--what were your movements on the day of the murder?"

"I stayed in the house till lunch; and in the afternoon I played tennis
at a house five miles away."

"You had no communication with Daynton of any sort--over the telephone,
for instance?"

"None."

"And Mr. Playfair--what did he do?"

"He went out on one of his photography expeditions. He started in the
car about half-past eight in the morning and was not back till after
lunch."

"One last point. You have already said that no one could have overheard
the conversation between the three of you on the drive. But did you by
any chance mention it to anybody afterwards?"

"No," she said. "I said nothing about it. And I'm sure Uncle John didn't
either, as he was in the whole afternoon fiddling about with his latest
camera."

"Then it must either have been an unfortunate coincidence for Bernard
Power or----"

He broke off and stared out of the window thoughtfully.

"Come along," he said, rousing himself at length. "Let's go down and
look at this summer-house. I hope your nerves are good, Miss Moody. Bob
generally drives, and never at less than sixty miles an hour."

                                   II

The grounds of Mexbury Hall were extensive, and the summer-house was a
good quarter of a mile from the Hall itself. Trees surrounded it on
three sides, affording admirable cover for anyone who wished to hide.
The fourth was open, and gave a magnificent view over the country to the
south. It was simply built of wood, with a sunblind that could be let
down over the big window.

A policeman was on guard as we approached, and he looked doubtful when
Ronald explained his business.

"Inspector's orders, sir, were that no one was to be allowed in. Still,
I suppose you're different."

"Come in yourself, officer, and you'll see that I'm not going to touch
anything. I take it nothing has been moved except the body?"

"Nothing, sir."

"Were you here yourself when the body was found?"

"I came with the Inspector, sir."

Ronald knelt down by the wooden steps leading to the door, and carefully
examined the ominous red stain. Then, with a shake of his head, he got
up.

"Too late," he said. "Nothing to be got out of that now."

He pushed open the door and stepped inside. Then, according to his
invariable custom, he stood absolutely motionless, with only his eyes
moving from side to side as he absorbed every detail. On the easel stood
the half-finished picture spattered with the dead man's blood. The
overturned chair still lay where it had fallen as the artist had crashed
to the floor.

"Not much doubt about what happened, sir," remarked the constable.
"Never seen a clearer case in all my service. Fair battered to pieces,
he was, poor gentleman."

"What's the meaning of this, Roberts?" said a gruff voice from outside.
"I ordered you to admit no one."

Ronald Standish swung round. A choleric-looking man in uniform was
standing in the doorway.

"Inspector Savage, I take it?" Standish said genially. "I have been
commissioned by Miss Moody to make a few inquiries on behalf of Mr.
Daynton."

He held out his card, and the Inspector grunted.

"I've heard of you, Mr. Standish," he remarked. "And if I was you I'd
wash my hands of it. You'll get no credit out of this case."

"Perhaps not," agreed Ronald. "Still, when a lady asks one to do
something for her it is hard to refuse."

"Kinder in the long run," said the other. "There's no good in raising
false hopes in her mind. You've seen in the newspapers what we've
discovered. What you may not know is that Daynton admits to having had a
furious quarrel with the murdered man at the very time the deed was
done."

"It was that fact, amongst others, my dear Inspector, that caused me to
take up the case. Surely no one out of a lunatic asylum would go out of
his way to damn himself so completely if he had done the murder. His
stick, I admit, he couldn't get over, since he was imbecile enough to
leave it here; the cigarette stump is awkward. But why he should then
add a quarrel which no one had heard is really more than one can
swallow."

He was swinging the door backwards and forwards as he spoke, and I saw
by the glint in his eye that he was hot on something.

"Very clever, Mr. Standish," laughed the Inspector, "but not quite
clever enough. Both Miss Moody and Mr. Playfair knew of his intention.
So how could he deny it? I say, sir, _must_ you go on making that
squeaking noise with the door?"

"Both ways, you notice," said Ronald. "It creaks when it opens and it
creaks when it shuts. Moreover, it shuts of its own accord. Very
interesting."

We stared at him in amazement, but he took no notice, and at last the
Inspector turned to go, with a significant glance at me.

"By the way, Inspector," said Ronald suddenly, "had the dead man got a
brush in his hand?"

"No; but one was lying on the floor beside him."

"Was there any paint on it?"

For a moment the Inspector looked nonplussed.

"I really couldn't tell you at the moment," he said, and Ronald shook
his head.

"My dear fellow," he remarked, "you surprise me. Get hold of it and
examine it. And if there's paint on it, sit down and think things over,
bearing in mind the fact that the door creaks."

"And if there isn't paint on it?" said the other with ponderous sarcasm.

"There will be," answered Ronald quietly.

"Anything else you can suggest?"

"Yes; but I don't think you're likely to do it."

"What's that?"

"Release that unfortunate chap, Daynton."

"Release Daynton?" gasped the other.

"Why not? For I can assure you that he had no more to do with the murder
of Bernard Power than you or I had."

"Then who did do it?"

"I promise you shall know at the first possible moment," said Ronald.

"Well, until I do," grinned the other, "Mr. Daynton remains under lock
and key."

Ronald was silent as we strolled back to the house, and I knew him too
well to interrupt his reverie.

"By the way, Bob," he said suddenly, as we neared the door, "say
nothing--even to Miss Moody--about our thinking Daynton innocent. It
might get round to the servants."

She met us on the drive, and with her was a man of about forty-five, who
we correctly surmised was her guardian, Mr. Playfair.

"Well," she cried, after introducing us, "what luck?"

Ronald shook his head.

"Early days yet, Miss Moody," he said gravely. "I've seen the Inspector,
and I'm bound to confess it doesn't look too good."

"I blame myself very much," said her guardian, "but never in my wildest
imagination did I dream of such a tragedy occurring."

"In what way do you blame yourself, Mr. Playfair?" asked Ronald.

"In going out so early that morning. I ought to have waited here and
been present at the interview. Hubert is such a hot-headed chap."

"But, Uncle John, he didn't do it!" cried the girl.

"My dear," said the other sadly, "I wish I could think so. And let us
hope that Mr. Standish succeeds in proving it. Candidly," he went on as
she left us, "I wish she hadn't been to you. You understand how I mean
it. The case is so painfully clear that I fear even you can do no good.
And the sooner she realises it the better."

"Perhaps so," agreed Ronald. "As you say, it's a pity you went out as
early as you did."

"Well, I wanted to get to Comber Ness by noon, and it's very nearly a
four hours' run. I don't know whether my ward has told you," he went on,
with a faint smile, "but I'm a most enthusiastic photographer. And I
have just acquired a new toy. Are you by any chance interested?"

"Very," said Ronald. "I do a bit that way myself."

"Then come and have a drink, and I will show it to you."

He led the way into the house and we followed him.

"It is a stereoscopic camera," he explained, as he took it off a table
in the hall. "And doubtless you know the principle on which it works.
The two lenses are the same distance apart as one's eyes, and two
negatives are taken at each exposure. Then by making positives and
holding them in one of those machines that you probably remember from
your early youth, the whole thing stands out as in real life."

"And you went over to Comber Ness to get a photograph," said Ronald.

"Exactly," said the other, and then gave a rueful laugh. "And didn't get
it--at least, not what I wanted. I've only just got the machine. In
fact, it was my first load of plates. Now, if you examine it, you will
see a little number at one end of the plate-carrier. Every time you
change a plate after taking a photo the number goes up one, so that you
always know how many plates are left. The numbers range from one to
twelve, and the night before Wilkinson, my butler, who is almost as keen
as I am on it, happened to mention to me that number twelve was showing,
which meant that there was only one more plate left. And I forgot all
about it till I arrived at Comber Ness."

"But one exposure was surely enough?" said Ronald.

"Quite--if I hadn't wanted to take two different views. It is, as you
know, one of the most celebrated beauty spots of England, and I had
promised an American friend of mine two photographs taken from totally
separate points. And I had only one plate. So there was nothing for it
but to use the camera as an ordinary one by covering one lens with a cap
and taking one view on half the plate, and then covering the other lens
and taking the second view on the other half. But, of course, it spoiled
things from a stereoscopic point altogether. However, I'm glad to say
they both came out well. I left them to be developed that day, and they
were sent up this afternoon with the other eleven."

He was examining some of the results as he was speaking, and at that
moment his ward came into the hall.

"Good Heavens! Uncle John," she cried, "this is hardly the time for
photographs."

"Sorry, dear," he said contritely. "The matter came up in the course of
conversation with Mr. Standish. You see, this was the camera I was using
that day at Comber Ness."

She seemed sorry at having spoken so sharply, and laid her hand on his
shoulder.

"It's all right, old 'un," she said. "So that's the new toy, is it? Can
we see the pretty pictures?"

"I've got to make the positives first," he answered. "These are the
negatives."

"Well, it's all beyond me. And I thought they were going to be much
bigger. Each of them seems just the same size as that other camera
takes--the little one."

"Quite right. This camera takes two identical pictures on every plate,
each of which is the same size as the little one."

"And when were these very good views of the grounds here taken?" said
Ronald.

"Let me see. I think I took those the day before I went to Comber Ness."

"A very fine machine," cried Ronald. "They are so clear cut. And these
two separate ones of Comber Ness. Beautiful! Beautiful! I should very
much like prints of those myself, if you would be good enough."

"Certainly," said our host. "Delighted. And now I expect you'd like to
see your rooms."

He led the way upstairs and, having told us the time of dinner, left us.
And shortly after Ronald came sauntering into my room and sat on the
bed.

"What do you make of it, Bob?" he said.

"Nothing at all," I answered. "And though you may be perfectly clear in
your own mind, old lad, that this man Daynton didn't do it, I don't see
that you've got much forrader as to who did."

He made no reply, and was staring out of the window as the butler
knocked to find out if there was anything we wanted.

"I hear you're very keen on photography, Wilkinson," said Ronald
pleasantly.

"In a small way I dabble in it, sir."

"Mr. Playfair was telling me it was a great hobby of yours. What do you
think of that new camera of his?"

"I've only seen it once, sir. He asked me to tell him the number showing
at the end. Twelve it was, I remember. That was the night before the
tragedy, sir. I do hope that you may be able to do something for poor
Mr. Daynton. Such a nice gentleman, sir."

"I hope so, too, Wilkinson. By the way, Mr. Playfair does most of his
developing himself, doesn't he?"

"Invariably, sir," said the butler, looking faintly surprised.

"But he had this last lot developed for him?" persisted Ronald.

"Yes, sir. He apparently lunched at Barminster on the day of the murder,
and left them with a chemist there."

"Thank you, Wilkinson. No--nothing to drink."

The butler left the room, and I stared at him.

"You seem very interested in our host's photography," I said.

"Bob," he remarked, "if you had just bought a new stereoscopic camera
and had motored over a hundred miles for a view, would you suddenly be
so overcome by a promise given to an American friend that you wouldn't
use your new acquisition as such?"

"What in the name of fortune are you driving at?" I cried. "Anyway,
whatever I might or might not do, we have seen what our host did.
There's the proof in the negative. Why, good Lord, man, you can't
suspect him."

"I didn't say I did. I merely asked a question. You see, Bob, one thing
is perfectly clear. A man who was at Comber Ness in the morning and
arrived at Barminster for lunch could not possibly have left here as
late as ten o'clock."

"Very well, then?"

"A perfect alibi. But it would have been an equally good alibi if he had
carried out the same time-table and taken a stereoscopic picture there
instead of two separate views. So again I ask--why those two different
views?"

"It must be the American," I cried.

"Must it? Or is it because he _couldn't_ take a stereoscopic picture?"

"Then he couldn't have taken the other two?"

"Sound logic," he grinned. "Well, time to change, I suppose."

"Look here, Ronald," I almost shouted, "what _do_ you mean?"

The grin departed, and he looked at me gravely.

"It means," he said, "that we are dealing with a particularly dangerous
and unprincipled man, whose only slip up to date is that he did not
expend a pennyworth of oil on the hinges of the summer-house door."

And with that he left the room.

All through the evening his words kept recurring to me, and the more I
thought of them the more amazing did they become. It seemed to me he
must be wrong, and yet Ronald Standish was not in the habit of making a
definite statement without good reason. And when, next morning, he
suddenly announced his intention of returning to London, I was even more
dumbfounded.

The girl was terribly disappointed, and it struck me that his attempts
at consolation were very half-hearted. He seemed to have lost interest
in the case, though he gave her a few perfunctory words of hope.

"I'll be back this evening, Miss Moody," he said, "and perhaps by then I
may have something to report."

But I heard him expressing a different opinion to our host when she was
out of hearing. For some reason he did not want me to go with him, and
so I spent most of the day with her trying to cheer her up. It was a
little difficult, since I manifestly could not allude to the amazing
hints he had dropped the preceding evening. In fact, the more I thought
of them the more fantastic did they seem. If Ronald had a fault it was
that he sometimes seemed to go out of his way to find a complicated
solution to a thing when a simple one fitted the facts. And for the life
of me I could not see wherein lay the difficulty over our host's
explanation of the two different photos on the one plate.

He returned about six, looking weary and dispirited, and my heart sank.

"Waste of time, I fear," he said, as we all met him in the hall. "I'm
afraid it's a case of going back to London for good."

"And throwing up the case?" cried the girl.

"I fear I was to blame, Miss Moody, in speaking too hopefully in my
rooms," he said. "So if you could give orders for our things to be
packed, we'll be getting along. By the way, Mr. Playfair, don't forget
those two photographs you promised me."

"I did them for you to-day," said our host. "I'll see if they are dry."

He left the hall, and for a moment we were alone.

"Got him, Bob," he said, and his eyes were blazing with excitement, "by
an amazing piece of luck."

But he was his apathetic self when Playfair returned with the prints.

"Astoundingly good," he remarked, as he examined them. "How did you
manage to do it, Mr. Playfair?"

"Do what?" cried the other, staring at him.

"Avoid taking the steam-roller which has been standing idle in the
centre of this particular view for the last ten days."

For a moment there was dead silence, and I saw that every atom of colour
had left our host's face.

"I did not go to London to-day," went on Ronald. "I went to Comber Ness,
where I took this photograph. Not fixed yet--but look at it."

He flung it on the table; it was the same as the other. But in the
centre was a steam-roller with a tarpaulin over it.

"You devil!" screamed Playfair, and made a dash for the passage leading
to the back of the house.

"Hold him, Bob!" roared Ronald, and I collared him. He struggled like a
maniac, but I kept him till Ronald came running back with the plate in
his hand.

"He was going to destroy that," he cried. "Well, Mr. Playfair, have you
any explanation as to why that steam-roller is missing from your photo?"
And then with a sudden shout--"Stop him, Bob!"

But it was too late. I felt his body relax in my arms, almost
immediately after his hand came away from his mouth. Then he slithered
to the floor--dead.

                                  III

"I'm blowed if I see how you did it, Mr. Standish."

It was three hours later, and Inspector Savage was gazing at Ronald in
undisguised admiration.

"By starting with a theory diametrically opposed to yours," said Ronald.
"You were convinced Hubert Daynton had done it; I was convinced he
hadn't. Then who had? My first idea was that the murderer was some man
Power had wronged--probably over some woman. He had been hiding near by,
and had taken advantage of the quarrel he heard to do the deed and throw
the suspicion on someone else. Then I suddenly realised the enormous
significance of the fact that the door creaked, and shut of its own
accord.

"Now, Power was sitting at his easel some four yards from the door.
Suppose the door was shut when the murderer entered; it would creak as
he opened it. Suppose it was being kept open by the stone with which the
deed was done; it would creak as it shut, after the stone was picked up.
_In either event it would creak._

"Now, what does anybody do who hears a door creak behind him--especially
if there has just been a quarrel and the creak may mean that the other
person has returned? He looks over his shoulder to see who it is. And if
he sees some enemy of his, some man he has wronged, he does not continue
his job with his back to the new-comer. But Power went on with his
painting. Therefore the person he saw he did not regard as an enemy, but
looked on as a friend. So much of a friend, in fact, that he did not
object to this new arrival walking about behind his back--always an
uncomfortable sensation unless your mind is completely at rest. And at
once a very different complexion was put on the matter.

"Then came my interview with Mr. John Playfair, and the question of the
two separate pictures of different views of Comber Ness on the one
plate--the point that puzzled you so much, Bob. You remember that when I
said it might be because he couldn't take a stereoscopic picture, you
countered by saying that in that case he equally could not have taken
the two separate views. Which was right, up to a point. He couldn't have
_taken_ either, but that doesn't prevent a negative appearing on a
plate.

"The man was a skilled photographer, and he was faced with the necessity
of proving to the world that he had been to Comber Ness. If he could do
so he was safe. But since he had no intention of going anywhere near
Comber Ness, what was he to do? He knew that if you take a negative and
make a positive from it, you can produce a second negative in a dark
room on exactly the same principle as you produce a print. But he had no
stereoscopic picture of Comber Ness; he'd only just bought the machine.
What he had got were two separate views taken with his smaller camera.

"So he makes two positives--you remember Miss Moody told us he was
fiddling about in the dark room all the afternoon before the murder--and
then he takes out his last stereoscopic plate. You see the importance of
its being the last one; that accounted for his having to put them both
on one plate. And that was why he took three unnecessary photos of his
own grounds. On to that last plate he clips the two positives, side by
side, exposes it in his dark room, and returns the plate to the camera.
There is his alibi. He need never go near Comber Ness, and, in fact, he
never did.

"He had Wilkinson's evidence that twelve was the number showing--you
noticed there, Bob, the slight discrepancy between Playfair's statement
and the butler's. He had the chemist's evidence that the plates were
handed over to him to be developed; he had the hotel evidence that he
lunched at Barminster.

"Exactly what he did we shall never know. He drove away at eight-thirty,
and presumably concealed his car in some lane. Then he returned and hid
near the summer-house. He was taking no risk up to date; if he was found
there was no reason why he shouldn't be in his own grounds. And
everything came off. He murdered Power, and drove quietly over to
Barminster, where he lunched."

"But why this cold-blooded murder of a man he apparently liked?" I
asked.

"The usual reason," he answered. "Once or twice after dinner last night
I caught the look in his eyes as they rested on the girl. He was in love
with her himself, which can account for many things. Why he took up
Power at all I can't tell you--possibly at the beginning he had some
idea of choking off Daynton by making him jealous. Then he may have
feared that instead of doing that the artist's attentions to the girl
might have the opposite result and bring Daynton and the girl closer
together. Or perhaps he may have become jealous of Power himself.
Anyway, he saw his opportunity of getting rid of both of them. And but
for the astounding piece of luck of my finding that steam-roller where
it was, he'd have gone darned near doing it. Being a clever man, he
realised at once that his whole alibi had become worse than useless--it
had become a rope round his neck. For what possible reason could there
be, save the true one, for his saying he'd been to Comber Ness when he
hadn't? That was why I was so off-hand to-day. At the first hint of
suspicion he would have destroyed the plate and never given me the
prints, trusting to the chemist's evidence that it had been a view of
Comber Ness."

"Well, I'm sure I'm much obliged to you, Mr. Standish," said the
Inspector. "Mr. Daynton has already been released."

"And doubtless will provide the necessary consolation for Miss Moody,"
said Ronald, with a smile. "For I don't think we need waste one second's
pity on that singularly cold-blooded murderer."

And it wasn't until we were driving into London that he turned to me
thoughtfully.

"I think the lie was justified, Bob, don't you?"

"What lie?" I said.

"That steam-roller only arrived at Comber Ness early this morning."




                                   2
                         THE MISSING CHAUFFEUR


                                   I

It was on a morning in late September that, happening to drop into
Ronald Standish's rooms, I found a man with him whose face seemed
familiar to me. He was sprawling in one of the easy chairs, smoking a
cigarette, and he glanced up as I apologised for interrupting.

"You're doing nothing of the sort, old boy," said Ronald. "In fact,
you've arrived at a very propitious moment. Do you know the Duke of
Dorset, known to most of the dear old schoolfellows as Catface?
This"--he waved a hand at me--"is Bob Miller."

The Duke grinned cheerfully.

"I was up in Town on business," he said, "and I suddenly remembered that
Ronald sometimes did the sleuth act. So I called round to see him."

"Not much sleuthing about this," laughed Ronald. "Bob--we are rising in
business. We've now become a registry office for servants."

"If somebody would explain," I murmured mildly, "it might be a little
easier."

"Catface has lost his chauffeur," Ronald remarked. "Hence his visit. But
tell Bob the story. I'd like to hear it again."

"It sounds a bit absurd, I must admit," said the Duke, "and there is
probably some quite ordinary explanation. At the same time it's no use
pretending that I'm not worried. My chauffeur has suddenly and
mysteriously disappeared. He's been in our service for years; he was
with my father. And he's vanished into thin air."

"It's this way, Bob," said Ronald. "The man's name is Williams, and he
lives with his wife in a cottage on the estate. By the way, are there
any children?"

"Two," said the Duke. "A boy and a girl--about ten and eight years old."

"Well, it appears that the night before last Williams left his cottage
just after seven o'clock, telling his wife that he was going down to the
'Bat and Ball' to have a pint--the 'Bat and Ball' being the chief pub in
Medchester, which, as you know, is the village close to Catface's hovel.
Apparently it was not an unusual thing for him to do, and Mrs. Williams
thought nothing about it. But, as time went on and nine o'clock came
with no sign of him, she began to get uneasy. So finally she rang up the
'Bat and Ball,' to find to her amazement that he had never been there.
She still wasn't really alarmed. There was another pub to which he
sometimes went. But that wasn't on the telephone, so all she could do
was to wait. And wait she did until eleven o'clock, when she became
genuinely frightened. So she put on a hat and went down into the
village, a matter of ten minutes' walk. At that hour both the pubs were
shut, but she beat up the two owners, only to find that her husband had
not been to either of them that night.

"By this time, of course, she was in a thorough panic. She could only
assume that her husband had been taken ill or had had a fit on the way.
So she got the local constable out of bed, and armed with a lantern the
two of them searched the road the whole way back to her cottage,
without, however, finding any trace of him. And that is as far as we go
at the moment. Her husband did not return during the night. He had not
returned when Catface left for London yesterday after lunch. And such is
the story of the missing chauffeur."

"Possibly he's back by now," I said.

"I told his wife to wire me at the club if he returned," said the Duke.
"You see, the extraordinary thing to my mind is that Williams, of all
men, should act in such a way. It's as if one's butler suddenly stood on
his head in the dining-room."

"Probably suffering from loss of memory," I remarked.

"But in that case surely he'd have been found yesterday!" he cried.

"Not of necessity, by any means," said Ronald. "It doesn't follow that
he's remained in the neighbourhood. He had money. What was there to stop
him wandering about all night, and then taking a train for somewhere?"

"The only station within miles is Croyde Junction," said the Duke. "And
he's as well known there as I am. Naturally I rang them up to ask, and
no sign of him had been seen. I'm worried, old boy, not only because I'm
genuinely attached to the fellow, but also because it's an infernal
nuisance having to get a temporary chauffeur for the Grand Duke's
visit."

He saw my look of bewilderment and explained.

"The Grand Duke Sergius is coming to stay with me next week. In the old
pre-Bolshevik days he was one of the loud noises in Russia, and he was a
great personal friend of my father's. And he has announced his intention
of putting in two or three days with me during his stay in England."

"But do you think there is any connection between your chauffeur's
disappearance and the Grand Duke's visit?" I asked.

He shrugged his shoulders.

"Probably I've got the wind up needlessly," he said, "but the
possibility has occurred to me. He is a leader and mainspring of the
Whites, and I know that his life has been threatened on several
occasions."

"Still, it is difficult to see how abducting your chauffeur is going to
help them to carry out their threat. They can't possibly know whom you
are going to engage in his place. They can't, so to speak, force a man
on you."

"I know all that," he agreed. "I've said it to myself over and over
again. And still I can't get rid of the thought that there may be some
connection."

"Have you taken any steps to get another man?" asked Ronald.

Ronald smiled.

"I've got no objection to trying to hit a few in the beak, old boy," he
said. "And I don't suppose Bob has either. But I frankly think you are
worrying yourself most unnecessarily about this man's disappearance. I'm
convinced myself you'll find that there is some quite simple
explanation."

And at that we left it, after agreeing to motor down that afternoon.

The Duke had arrived before us, and a glance at his face showed that
further developments had taken place.

"I've got Mrs. Williams here, Ronald," he said. "I want you to hear what
she has to say. I'm terribly afraid there has been foul play."

We followed him into a small writing-room, where a middle-aged woman,
her eyes red with weeping, was waiting.

"Now, Mrs. Williams," he went on, "I want you to tell these gentlemen
exactly what you've told me. They've come down from London especially to
see if they can do anything to help you."

"I will, your Grace," she answered; "though I fear my poor Henry is
beyond human aid. He'd never have gone away like that, without so much
as a word to me, of his own free will."

"Supposing you just tell us everything, Mrs. Williams," said Ronald
gently. "I have already heard from his Grace the bare facts of your
husband's disappearance. Now I want to hear further details."

"Show Mr. Standish what you found to-day," said the Duke.

She fumbled in her bag, and finally produced a sheet of paper, which she
handed to Ronald. On it was written the following sentence in block
capitals:--

                       _MEET ME CROSS ROADS 7.30_

"And where did you find this?" asked Ronald, holding it up to the light.

"In my husband's livery, sir," she answered. "There was a hole in the
top pocket, and as I was folding it up and putting it away this morning
I felt this rustle in the lining."

"Which cross-roads does it refer to?"

"There are cross-roads half-way between the cottage and Medchester,"
said the Duke.

"I see," said Ronald. "So for the moment, at any rate, we'll assume that
that is the spot alluded to. Now, Mrs. Williams, you say you found this
in your husband's livery. Did he wear it on the day he disappeared?"

"Yes, sir. He came in about six o'clock and changed."

"Was he in his usual spirits, or did he seem at all worried?"

"Not exactly worried, sir, but rather quiet like."

"In other words, different from what he generally was?"

"Well, yes, sir--he was a little. And yet not enough to make me remark
on it at the time. Though what with one thing and another and getting
the children to bed, I didn't have much chance of speaking."

"And he's said nothing to you in the last few days which could throw any
light on this note?"

"Nothing, sir." And then she hesitated. "Well, there was one little
thing, sir."

"Out with it," said Ronald. "It's the little things we want."

"Well, sir, about four days ago, or perhaps five, he did say to me that
there was a lot of wicked scoundrels in the world. And he said it as if
there was something at the back of his mind."

"Did you ask him what he meant?" cried the Duke.

"I didn't, your Grace," she said. "He was just going out, and after that
it slipped my memory."

"So there's really nothing more you can tell us, Mrs. Williams?" said
Ronald.

"No, sir. I can't think of anything."

"And your children noticed nothing?"

"No, sir. I haven't told them yet. I've just let them think their daddy
has gone away for two or three days."

She clasped her hands together.

"Oh, sir--do you think there's any hope?"

"Good Heavens! yes, Mrs. Williams," cried Ronald cheerfully. "You go
back to your cottage and keep your spirits up. I shall probably be along
that way shortly myself. By the way, there is one more question I want
to ask you. Has your husband got any friends or acquaintances who are
not English?"

"Not that I know of, sir," she answered. "If he has, he's never
mentioned it to me."

"Thank you, Mrs. Williams. Now, don't forget what I said: keep
cheerful."

"What do you make of it, Ronald?" said the Duke, as the door closed
behind her.

"Nothing at all at the moment," Ronald answered, "except the one
significant fact in that note."

He put it on the table.

"Look at that seven. Have you ever seen an Englishman make a seven with
a horizontal line across it? Whereas a lot of Europeans do. I don't say
it's conclusive, but it's more than likely that the writer has lived a
lot abroad. Question number two. Is it a man or a woman? No answer
possible from what we've got at present. From what you tell me, Williams
is not the sort of man who would play the fool with a girl."

"Most emphatically not," said the Duke.

"But, on the other hand, he might be taken in by a sob-stuff story and
think he could help someone. So, as I said, we do not know if it's a man
or a woman. All we can say is that the loss of memory theory is out of
court, and that he left the house to keep a definite assignation."

"Which looks bad to me," said the Duke. "For nothing will make me
believe that he would not have communicated with me if he'd been able
to."

"It has that appearance, Catface," agreed Ronald. "However, we may as
well go and have a look at the place, though I don't suppose we'll find
anything after such a lapse of time."

"I'll come with you," said the Duke. "There is ample time before
dinner."

We strolled across the park, and after we had gone about half a mile he
pointed to two cottages ahead of us.

"One of those is Williams's," he remarked; "the other belongs to the
head keeper."

"I think we'll start at the cross-roads first," said Ronald. "Has
anybody except the local constable been over the ground?"

"I couldn't tell you," answered the Duke. "I told my agent to do all he
could, and to get in touch with the police at Dorchester.
Incidentally--talk of the devil----Well, Johnson, any fresh
developments?"

A middle-aged man in riding breeches was coming towards us, and his
expression was grave.

"I'm sorry to say there are, your Grace," he said. "About thirty yards
up the road leading to Cantrell's farm the undergrowth at one side is
all beaten down. There is blood on the grass, and every appearance of a
desperate struggle having taken place."

The Duke turned to Ronald.

"That settles it," he remarked. "That's the spot we're making for."

He introduced us to the agent, and we all four walked on together.

"I was just coming to report to you," continued Johnson. "He must have
been set on by someone in the darkness, and in the struggle gone swaying
up that side road. That's Inspector Morrison from Dorchester in front of
us now. It was he who discovered it."

The Inspector saluted as we came up and led us to the spot.

"Pretty clear what happened, your Grace," he said. "Though why anyone
should want to assault Mr. Williams is beyond me. Case of mistaken
identity, I suppose."

"Not that, Inspector," remarked Ronald, handing him the note. "This has
just been found in his coat. He was deliberately decoyed here."

As he spoke he was peering at the ground carefully.

"Is this track much used?" he asked.

"Very little," answered Johnson, "and mainly by Cantrell."

"Has Cantrell got a car?"

"Yes--but its been out of action for the last week. A big end went."

"Well, a car has been standing here comparatively recently. You can see
the impression on the grass if you look closely."

He straightened up and his face was grave.

"Things look much worse than I thought, Catface," he said in a low
voice. "It's hardly conceivable that the mark of that car at this
particular spot should have no connection with the struggle. So it boils
down to the fact that the whole affair was definitely planned. But why
the deuce anybody should want to kidnap your chauffeur is a bit of a
poser."

He turned to the Inspector.

"You haven't by any chance heard of any foreigners being in the
neighbourhood?" he asked.

The Inspector shook his head, but Johnson swung round at once.

"Funny you should ask that, Mr. Standish. There's been a woman--quite
young--staying at the 'Bat and Ball' recently. And two or three days ago
she was joined by two men who arrived by car. They all left that night.
By Jove! it was the very day of this affair, now that I come to think of
it."

"But why do you imagine that they were foreigners?" asked Ronald.

"Cheadle--the landlord--told me they were," said Johnson. "Apparently
they all spoke English perfectly, but amongst themselves they used some
other language."

"Well, Inspector," said Ronald, "there's something for you to go on.
That note was almost certainly written by a foreigner, and now we hear
that three foreigners were staying at the 'Bat and Ball' on the day of
Williams's disappearance and left in a car that night. Moreover, a car
stood here recently."

"Not much proof anywhere, sir," said the Inspector doubtfully.

"None at all," agreed Ronald. "But if there is no connection, it is an
extraordinary chain of coincidence. If I were you, I'd try to get a
description of those people from Cheadle, and put some quiet inquiries
on foot. It's just within the bounds of possibility that someone might
have noticed the number of their car."

He turned to the Duke.

"And that, it seems to me, is all that we can do. Sorry not to be more
helpful, old boy, but the business of tracking a car and people is
beyond me. It's a police job pure and simple."

"Supposing you're right, Ronald, do you think they've killed him?"

"I can't tell you. I don't know. There's a lot of blood about. The
struggle was pretty desperate. All that one can do is to hope that he's
only been laid out."

"Lord! but I wish I could get to the bottom of this," cried the Duke in
a worried voice.

We were walking back over the park towards the house.

"I'm infernally sorry for Williams--poor devil!" he went on--"but what's
the object of the thing?"

"Well," said Ronald slowly, "it seems to me that there are two possible
alternatives which suggest themselves at once. The first one is that
they made some suggestion to him which he resented so much that they had
this fight. The second one is rather more sinister. They decoyed him
there in order to abduct him, so that someone else might be substituted
in his place--someone who might prove more amenable to this suggestion."

The Duke stopped and stared at him.

"What sort of suggestion?" he demanded.

"I did not think so at first," said Ronald, "but with these fresh
developments, old boy, I am bound to admit that I'm beginning to agree
with your original suspicion that it's got something to do with your
visitor of next week. Otherwise the whole thing is absolutely
incomprehensible."

"What the devil am I to do?" cried the other. "Shall I make some excuse
and put him off?"

"You can hardly do that on what we've got up to date. We _may_ be
entirely wrong. All you can do is to vet the new man when he comes very
thoroughly, and----"

He broke off suddenly.

"Hallo! a new development. What does Mrs. Williams want?"

She was running across the grass towards us, waving her arms, and
evidently in a state of considerable excitement.

"Your Grace," she gasped as she came up, "this has just come."

In her hand she held a letter which she brandished in the air.

"Steady, Mrs. Williams," he said soothingly. "Let's have a look at it."

"It's from Henry, sir." She turned to Ronald. "But look at the writing."

And Ronald was looking at the writing with a face grown suddenly grave.
For its colour was reddish brown, and it looked as if the wrong end of a
penholder had been used, so thick were the letters. The envelope was
addressed to "Mrs. Williams, Lilac Cottage, Medchester," and was stained
with mud and dirt.

"Read what's inside, sir," she cried.

The contents consisted of a double sheet of paper on which two words
were written, also in reddish brown:--

                             _Harvey petrol._

"Harvey!" cried the Duke, who was looking over Ronald's shoulder. "Why,
that's the local garage."

"Is that so?" said Ronald thoughtfully. "You are sure this is your
husband's writing, Mrs. Williams?"

"Positive, sir. Besides, I know the paper. You see that little W in the
corner, and Henry always carried some in his pocket-book. And envelopes.
What does it mean, sir?"

"Postmark--Belton. Where's Belton?"

"Next village to Medchester on the London road," said the Duke.

"Then, your Grace, he must be there," she cried. "But why has he used
that funny-coloured ink? And why is the envelope so dirty?"

"I'm afraid you mustn't build on the hope that your husband is at
Belton, Mrs. Williams," said Ronald gravely. "In fact, I'm sorry to have
to tell you some bad news."

"He's not dead, sir?" she said piteously.

"No, no. I don't think for a moment he's dead. But I'm afraid he's been
badly hurt."

"Can I go to him, sir?" she cried.

"We don't know where he is, Mrs. Williams."

"But, look here, Ronald," said the Duke, who had been studying the
envelope, "the date of the postmark is to-day."

"Which shows that it was posted to-day, but not that it was written
to-day. This letter was thrown out of the car in which he was
travelling, and fell in the mud. Evidently to-day somebody found it and
put it in the post."

"How on earth can you tell that?" demanded the Duke incredulously.

But Ronald did not answer. Instead, he turned to the woman.

"Will you leave this with me, Mrs. Williams? I'll take great care of it.
And the instant we know anything about your husband we'll let you know."

"Very good, sir. I'm sure, sir, you will."

She curtsied, and went stumbling back to her cottage.

"Now, Ronald," cried the Duke, when she was out of hearing, "how do you
know this letter wasn't written to-day?"

"Because I recognised at once the ink that had been used. It's blood,
Catface. And from the colour it's considerably more than one day old."

"Good God!" gasped the Duke. "Are you sure?"

"Quite sure. Somehow or other Williams managed to write this, using his
own blood as an ink. He knew that if his wife got it she would bring it
to you. It must be a warning of sorts, but what it means is somewhat
obscure."

"We always do get our petrol from Harvey," said the Duke. "His is the
only garage within miles."

Ronald put the letter carefully in his pocket.

"It's one of the most extraordinary cases I've ever struck," he said.
"And at the moment I don't see one ray of light."

That state of affairs continued for the next week. The new chauffeur, a
man by the name of Groves, arrived with the most impeccable references,
two of them from people known personally to all of us. Harvey, whose
garage we visited casually, proved to be a typical West Countryman with
a jovial face and a cheery manner: a man who, if appearances ever count
for anything, was as honest and straight as could be found in
Dorsetshire. Cheadle, with whom we had a pint or two, gave us as closely
as he could a description of the three foreigners, but, as Ronald had
anticipated, it proved quite useless. It would have fitted a hundred
people equally well. And the mystery of Williams's whereabouts remained
as profound as ever.

It was not until two days before the Grand Duke's arrival that any
further development took place. Ronald and I were strolling through the
village on our way back to lunch, when Johnson, the Duke's agent, came
out of the "Bat and Ball" and hurried towards us.

"That woman is back," he said. "Returned this morning."

"Is she, by Jove?" cried Ronald. "We'll come in and have a drink. I'd
like to have a look at her without her knowing it."

"Good morning, gentlemen," cried Cheadle, as we entered the bar. "That
lady----"

"Three pints, Mr. Cheadle, please," interrupted Ronald quickly, at the
same time giving him a warning frown. "And have something yourself."

The room was full of the usual crowd that gathers in a village inn at
midday, and after a cursory glance round Ronald dismissed them. At the
same time, he did not relax his caution.

"Not a word, please, Mr. Cheadle," he said, in a low voice. "I want to
see that lady without raising her suspicions. Is she having lunch here?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then my friends and I will lunch here, too. Give me a table where I can
get a good look at her."

And for half an hour, in the intervals of trying to masticate the
so-called cold beef, we were able to study the woman at our leisure. And
it must be admitted that the insult to our digestions was not worth it.
Just a distinctly pretty young foreigner having lunch by herself in an
English inn--that and nothing more. And yet the clue to so much lay
under that tight-fitting little hat.

"Bob, I'm flummoxed," said Ronald, as we left the inn. "Absolutely
flummoxed. Why has she come back? What is the connecting link? There
_must_ be one. No woman like that is going to stay at the 'Bat and Ball'
for fun. But we've got no proof: nothing but two or three apparently
unconnected facts. What is the link? Are we being damned stupid, or is
it really something that we couldn't know yet?"

And that night I heard him pacing up and down his room for hours, until
at length I fell asleep.

                                   II

Even now, after the lapse of years, I sometimes wake up sweating at the
nearness of the thing. But for one tiny slip on their part, and Ronald's
extraordinary quickness in realising its significance, one of the most
atrocious crimes of modern times would have succeeded. Many garbled
accounts have appeared in the Press. Now for the first time I will set
down the real truth of that amazing plot.

It occurred on the second day of the Grand Duke's visit. A ceremonial
call on a former British Ambassador who lived some fifty miles away had
been arranged, and at eleven o'clock the car drew up at the door. Groves
was driving, and seated beside him was the man who passed as the Grand
Duke's secretary, but who was in reality a highly-placed secret service
man. Behind sat the Grand Duke and his host. The car rolled away, some
of the house-party watching it depart. Nothing could have been more
normal. And then two minutes after it had gone a chance remark of
Johnson's threw the spark into the powder magazine.

"Never seen the Duke so angry in my life," he said, "as he was with that
new chauffeur a few minutes ago."

"What was the trouble?" asked someone perfunctorily.

"He'd let the car run practically dry of petrol."

"What's that?"

Ronald's voice came like a pistol-shot, and then things moved.

"Bob--get the bus. Move, man, move!"

I raced towards the garage, and was back inside a minute with the
Bentley, to find Ronald waiting. He boarded her whilst she was still
moving, leaving a crowd of surprised guests staring after us. He flung
himself down in the seat beside me, and with a little thrill I felt
something hard in his pocket pressed against my thigh. Whilst I had got
the car, he had got his revolver.

"The tank of Catface's car was full last night, Bob," he said quietly.
"I had a look at it on purpose. Stamp on the gas, boy."

And three minutes later we were in the village. In front of us was the
Rolls outside Harvey's garage, filling up from the petrol pump.

"Pull up just behind her," said Ronald.

His eyes were darting in every direction, but at the moment the scene
looked harmless enough. The village street was almost deserted save for
a powerful-looking racing car outside the "Bat and Ball," and Harvey and
his assistant, who were manipulating the pump. The secret service man
had descended and was standing by the window on the side of the Grand
Duke. The chauffeur, having watched the filling for a few moments, had
returned to the driving seat. At length the operation was over; the pipe
was held up to let the last drops out; the gauze filter of the car was
put back in the tank; the cap was screwed on. And a moment later they
were away.

"Seems all in order, old boy," I said.

He did not answer; only stared after the back of the retreating car.

And suddenly his eyes narrowed, and without a word he raced down the
street after it. Stopped, picked something up in the road, and came back
towards me like a madman.

"Get her going!" he roared. "And chase the Rolls."

He fell in beside me, and I saw that he held in his hand a gauze filter.
Even then I didn't get it. Evidently the assistant had forgotten to put
it back in the tank, and any time would do to return it. And at that
moment the roar of the racing car behind us drowned our own machine.

"They're after us," said Ronald, through set teeth. "And they've got our
legs. Saw the curtains moving in the inn and I knew we were being
watched. The woman and two men."

"What shall I do?" I cried. "Let her all out?"

"Yes, until I tell you otherwise."

The road was twisty for the first mile, and we swung round corners with
the other car on our tail. In the glass on the screen I could see their
faces at times, and suddenly I saw one of them stand up and draw a
revolver from his pocket.

"Look out," I howled. "They're trying gun work."

"Are they, by gosh?" said Ronald, kneeling up on the seat and facing
backwards. "Two can play at that game. Swerve about a bit, Bob, till
he's fired."

Came a crack and the pilot lamp shattered.

"Now keep her steady."

For about a hundred yards the road was straight, and I could see them
all in the mirror. And then it happened. Ronald fired, and the car
behind us seemed to swerve like a mad thing across the road. I had a
vision in the glass of wheels upside down; heard a frightful crash; then
silence save for the roar of our own engine.

"I burst their front tyre for them," said Ronald quietly, sitting down
again. "And now then, Bob, every ounce of juice."

His face was cold and set, but I could feel the nervous tension of him.
And still half dazed I drove on--drove as I have never driven before or
since--drove till we saw a minute or two later the Rolls in front of us.

"Keep your horn going," he cried, standing up and waving his arms
violently.

At last we saw Catface look round, then turn and give an order to
Groves. The car slowed down and stopped.

"Pull up beside 'em, but stand by to move on," said Ronald.

We reached them, and Ronald yelled his orders.

"Fall into this car for your lives!" he shouted. "Hurry! For God's sake,
hurry!"

They tumbled in a heap into the back of the Bentley.

"Drive on, Bob. Stamp on it again."

And I suppose I'd gone fifty yards when it happened. There came a
deafening explosion, and the Rolls seemed literally to split in two. The
whole of the back part flew in pieces, and what was left became in half
a second a raging inferno of flames. For a while we watched it in
awe-struck silence, and then the Grand Duke lit a cigarette and turned
to his host.

"Cutting it a trifle fine, I think. Do all your cars do that, my dear
fellow?"

"How did you find out, Ronald?" said the other shakily.

But Ronald was staring at Groves, who had turned as white as a sheet.

"Who got at you?" he said sternly. "And how much were you paid for
emptying the tank?"

"Nothing, sir," he cried. "Before God, I swear it. It was a lady, your
Grace, who had never seen his Royal Highness, and she begged me to stop
the car in the village so that she could have a closer look at him. She
wanted to take a photograph, and she suggested emptying the tank."

"You damned scoundrel!" roared the Duke. "How came that infernal bomb or
whatever it was into the car?"

"That he is not responsible for, old boy," said Ronald quietly.
"Harvey's assistant is the man who did it. But whether he knew it was a
bomb or not I can't say. Turn the car round, Bob. There are one or two
little things to be cleared up."

And the first of them was soon done. The car that had pursued us had
turned clean over and crashed down a steep bank, killing all three
occupants.

"They started some shooting practice at us, as you can see," said
Ronald, pointing to the shattered lamp. "So I retaliated, and was lucky
enough to burst one of their front tyres."

"Assuredly, Mr. Standish," remarked the Grand Duke, "you seem to be a
man after my own heart. Though I am still not quite clear why, if you
saw the bomb being put in, you did not warn us at the time."

"Because, sir, I did not realise then that it was a bomb. I thought the
assistant was putting back the gauze filter, and it was not until it
fell off the back of the car as you drove off that I realised that what
he had put in was something else. Sheer luck. No skill of mine. Had you
gone another thirty yards before it slipped off, and rounded the corner
out of sight, the death roll would have been in our camp, I fear.
But--it did slip off, and I saw it. It was a certainty then as to what
had happened, confirmed by their immediate pursuit of us."

And that is the true story of one of the most sensational cases of the
past few years. Harvey's assistant proved to be almost a half-wit who
had been bribed by one of the men to put the time bomb in the tank,
having been told by him that it was a patent device for increasing
mileage. And Williams, who had been kept a close prisoner in a house on
the outskirts of London, returned to the Duke's service. It transpired
that the woman had made the same suggestion to him as she did to Groves,
and on his refusing indignantly, the two men had sprung on him out of
the darkness. She had previously pitched him some yarn about being
persecuted, and he had met her on one or two occasions. In fact, the
only remaining thing left to chronicle was the arrival, a few days
later, at Ronald's rooms of a beautiful little clock. And on the back of
it was engraved: "Guaranteed not to explode. Sergius."
